# Cranky Cranky
Cranky Cranky is a simulation of a generator that turns mechanical energy into electrical energy.

## Instructions
Default values are provided for the generator. If this is your first time trying out the program, click the button that says "start" to begin. Once started, the simulation can either be paused or resumed by clicking the same button.

Enter in values for the select variables (resistivity of wire, pole strength, number of coils in wire) or leave them as their default values. 

Choose whether you want the generator to have a split-ring commutator by clicking the button in the "input variables" tab. If it says "remove split-ring commutator" then the split-ring commutator is present and vice versa.

Input an angular velocity to run the simulation to turn the handle of the generator at a constant speed.

If you choose to change any of the input variables, click the button that says "recalculate" to reset the simulation to the new conditions.

## Physics
In this model, we are neglecting the torque that the magnetic force produces when a current begins to flow through the wire in the magnetic field. We also set some variables used in the calculations, such as the area of the loop, as constant.

The equation used to calculate the current generated by the user at a given time t is 
I(t) = (NBAw / R) * sin(wt), where:
N = number of coils in the wire
B = magnetic field, which is proportional to the pole strength
A = area enclosed by the loop of wire
w = angular velocity of the handle
R = resistance of the wire, which is proportional to the resistivity of the wire

From this, we can use Ohm’s law for power to generate the equation for power.

The default settings in this program are;
Resistivity of wire = 1.72e-8 Ohm-meters (resistivity of copper wire)
Pole strength = 130 A * m
Number of coils in wire = 200
Split-ring commutator = yes
Angular velocity = 5 rads / s
Area enclosed = 0.08 m^2


